[Triage Process] Allow SIG maintainers to express their requirements (#4229)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: issue-management.md

These issues, which may be created by a SIG or just assigned to them, should be added to the SIG's project board and given the label `sig-issue`.
If an issue is labeled as a `sig-issue`, it is the responsibility of the SIG to prioritize
the issue appropriately, and ensure it is completed or closed as won't fix.

## Issues blocking implementation

SIGs that implement and document the specification in their respective language may run into issues with the specification,
that block their implementation, or they may want to request a specification change related to an implementation change. To

> highlight issues of that kind SIG maintainers can request a `maintainer-request` label being added

Reviewer: Should we add a component of the language that allows the blocked language to be conveyed? Would allow us to know at a glance if something is blocking multiple languages.
```suggestion
highlight issues of that kind SIG maintainers can request a `maintainer-request:<language>` label being added
```

Author: I have mixed feelings about that, while I agree on the goal of having that information stored in the labels, searching by those labels is going to be much more complicated. A middle ground would be to have `maintainer-request` and `maintainer-request:<language>` at the same time. Not perfect, but still allows both

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure we should restrict to just language maintainers, can we use `<otel-project>` instead?

Author: > I'm not sure we should restrict to just language maintainers, can we use `<otel-project>` instead?

I think this is related to @carlosalberto question below (https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/4229#discussion_r1821760303), maybe we start with the language SIGs and then expand the scope? I think the only issue I see is that if we go towards maintainer-request:<otel-project> we get an explosion of labels since there is a lot of them. In that case I would prefer to only have `maintainer-request`

Reviewer: > I have mixed feelings about that, while I agree on the goal of having that information stored in the labels, searching by those labels is going to be much more complicated

Ugh.. so silly that github doesn't support anysort of regex or glob pattern matching when filtering by labels. As a result, yes, the search would have to be something like: `label:maintainer-request:java,maintainer-request:dotnet,maintainer-request:<language>`, enumerating all the languages in the ecosystem.

Author: I would leave the PR as is and we can iterate on it as needed?

to an issue, if the following conditions are met:

> * the issue description or a comment by the maintainer points to at least one issue in an implementation repo, of which they are a maintainer.

Reviewer 3: does implementation repo includes contrib repos?

Author: good question 🤔 ... spend some minutes to think about that, because I see pros&cons in restriciting it to "core" vs opening up to all other repos as well (might include contrib, but also auto instrumentation, collector, operator, docs, ...). 

Even if I see some personal benefit as docs maintainer to open it up, I lean towards saying "no" and only include core repos **for now**: let's start with that restricted scope, which also makes it easier if we implement @jack-berg's suggestion (https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/4229#discussion_r1827410600), but keep the option to expand it to more in the future, wdyt?

Author: I would leave the PR as is and we can iterate on it as needed?

Reviewer 3: @svrnm SGTM

If an issue is labeled as a `sig-issue`, it is the responsibility of the SIG to prioritize
the issue appropriately, and ensure it is completed or closed as won't fix.

## Issues blocking implementation

SIGs that implement and document the specification in their respective language may run into issues with the specification,
that block their implementation, or they may want to request a specification change related to an implementation change. To
highlight issues of that kind SIG maintainers can request a `maintainer-blocked` or `maintainer-request` label being added
to their issue, if the following conditions are met:

* their issue points to at least one issue in an implementation repo, of which they are a maintainer.
* they summarize in the issue description what is blocking this issue and/or what change is required to move that issue forward.
* they tag all maintainers of the implementation repo in the issue description (@open-telemetry/<sig>-maintainers). No action from the other maintainers is expected, except they disagree with
  the request of this issue being tagged as `maintainer-blocked` or `maintainer-request`

> * they will share the issue with all other SIGs either via the Maintainers Call or via a message to [#otel-maintainers](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C01NJ7V1KRC) on CNCF slack. This way maintainers of other implementation SIGs can comment if they have the same request.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* they will share the issue with all other SIGs either via the [Maintainer Meeting](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community?tab=readme-ov-file#cross-cutting-sigs) or via a message to [#otel-maintainers](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C01NJ7V1KRC) on CNCF slack. This way maintainers of other implementation SIGs can comment if they have the same request.
```

Reviewer 4: We should also link to https://github.com/open-telemetry/community?tab=readme-ov-file#slack since many folks had trouble joining CNCF Slack.

A triager will add the requested label to the issue if those conditions are met. The difference between the 2 labels is as follows:

> - `maintainer-blocked` means that there is an issue with the specification that blocks the SIG from implementing an existing part of the specification.

Reviewer 5: What if there is something missing in the specification that blocks the implementation?

Reviewer 4: I guess we can use [bug](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abug) for things that require fixes. And if maintainers are blocked by things that don't exist yet, those can be tagged as [feature](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%feature). (side note: most GitHub repositories make heavy use of these labels, the fact that OTel spec repo doesn't use it frequently is somewhat odd to me)

> - `maintainer-request` means that there is no blocking issue with an existing part of the specification. This means, that the SIG either wants to implement something that is not yet part of the specification, or that they can go forward with the implementation regardless, but want to clarify ambiguity or inaccuracy.

Reviewer 5: > they can go forward with the implementation regardless

This seems very unwanted

Reviewer 4: 👀

Reviewer 3: +1 to what @pellared said. Also, for cases of adding new functionality, there's the OTEP path. Implementation specific doubts (to leave out ambiguity) are fine though, IMHO. But honestly we could use the `maintainer-blocked` label for that purpose too.

> - `maintainer-request` means that there is no blocking issue with an existing part of the specification. This means, that the SIG either wants to implement something that is not yet part of the specification, or that they can go forward with the implementation regardless, but want to clarify ambiguity or inaccuracy.

Reviewer 5: Shouldn't ambiguity be a blocker?
